It's been a little while
since I've been up here.
So I got to figure out what
I'm doing and how this works.
I know one thing's key.
I'm going to open the word of God.
We'll pray at some point, if I cover those
two things, I think it's a win this week.
I bet you guys, I mean, if we
can get in the word and we can
pray, then I think it's a win,
whatever else comes in between.
I'm sorry.
No, not sure what's going to come out.
Um, but it's, it's great to be back
with you guys, you know, last week.
Um, you know, some of us were, were
able to go to different churches
and worship with other churches,
bring gifts to the pastors.
And, um, I heard back from almost
every single one of those pastors,
um, and even some of the pastors
wives were texting Brittany.
And we're just so thankful.
For our generosity and just
willingness to come and worship
with them and be kingdom minded.
And so I think it was, um, I was
one of those things I was skeptical
like, will this work, will churches
embrace us coming and visiting?
And they did.
And they loved it.
And I think it worked out really well.
And so great job.
I just, I'm thankful that we
want to continue to be a church.
That's not just about.
Our facility, our place, our name it's
about his kingdom, his place, his name.
Right.
And when we do that and we're consistently
pushing ourselves to just be the church
where we are no matter where we gather,
we'll remind ourselves not to just
live our faith out inside these walls,
but we'll live it wherever we go.
So I thought that was a cool
opportunity for us to go when.
Um, we are back in the Jonah
series, um, which, uh, we had
left off a couple of weeks ago.
And so we're going to be in Jonah chapter
three and we'll start in verse one.
We'll go through verse five,
uh, considered going through the
whole, uh, chapter of, of three.
But I think next week would
be a good week to kind of hone
in on a few different things.
But, um, one of the things I just want
to start with and ask this question, um,
have any of you, and I'm hoping I'm not
the only one have any of you ever failed?
Miserably or made a huge mistake.
Anybody.
Okay, good.
So we all are in the same boat.
Right.
And if I was still probably ask you,
Hey, can you tell me what that is?
You guys would probably be
like, no, because I don't want
anybody to know one of my biggest
failures of my biggest mistakes.
See, when I've been studying the
book of Jonah and it was kind
of, I've walked through this
and a couple of different views.
One is like, how could Jonah do this?
And quickly I've turned
to, how could I do this?
'cause I see myself in the place of Jonah.
It's easy to just
somebody from the outside.
Who's made a huge mistake
and made the wrong decision.
Um, but I think for all of us,
we need to know that when we make
those mistakes, we make those, um,
uh, failures, whatever failures
they are that they don't define us.
Right.
Uh, God defines us.
And so let me share with you
one of my biggest failures.
So you guys can hear one
of my, so previous church.
Um, we, uh, were vandalized, um, in
one of our student buildings, um, where
our staff offices were, they broke in
vandalized things, stole things, and the
worst part is not even the second part,
which means they came back the next night
and actually set it on fire and it burned.
Um, and we had over a million dollars
worth of damage and crazy stuff happens.
So that's another story for another
time, but here's the mistake that I made.
See every Monday I went over in my role.
I would go over to the main worship
area, go to the safe and get, what
do you typically get out of the
safe after a Sunday morning money?
The offering, right?
I got it, brought it over candidate,
all got all the checks, right.
And all that.
It was later in the day.
I didn't have time to make it to the bank.
So I put it in my desk and locked
it, you know, every other time
that I've done that, which is.
Did it make it the banquet rare.
It worked.
I could have walked over, put in the safe,
but I didn't do it locked into my desk.
No big deal, never had an issue, but
that night happened to be the night that
this group came in vandalized and broken.
So they broke into my desk and took
all the money out of the offering.
Luckily they left the checks,
they didn't take the checks.
Um, and so that, that day I felt so bad.
I knew what was right.
I knew for me in my role, Hey, the
most logical thing is he to bring the.
To the safe or go deposit
it, but I didn't do it.
And then that, that really like, I was
struggling with that and are struggling
with man, if I can't get this right.
If I, you know, can they trust
me again to do the offering?
And you know what I was so
thankful with, with our finance
team, with my pastor was great.
He understood.
I was beating myself up bad enough.
He understood that.
I knew I would never do that again.
Um, luckily insurance money
was able to, uh, they were able
to give us that money back.
So I mean, everything worked out right.
But in the end, sometimes those
mistakes, those big decisions
where we make a wrong decision.
Define us, but they don't have to.
And so when I look at Jonah's story,
like in this, and so I know when
you think ahead on Jonah's story,
you can kind of get a little bit
negative view if him again, but
let's look at this in this place.
Jonah's coming to a place
where he did repent.
And we talked a little bit about this.
His repentance seemed half-hearted, but
it's interesting how God's still use that.
And so if you want to
know if your failure.
You know, define you.
If God can use people,
who've made major mistakes.
Let me just give you a couple.
Number one.
We already know Jonah, right?
Jonah ran from the Lord.
Um, did not do a guy called them
to do, and God's getting ready
to say, Hey, I can use you again.
And so Peter, if you remember, Peter,
Peter was the one that's so interesting.
He walked with Jesus for three years.
He actually, when Jesus
said, who do you say I am?
He says, you're the Messiah.
The son of God.
He denied Jesus three times
and said he did not know.
Yeah, God.
Still used him to be
the rock of the church.
And actually we've been talking about
this a little bit and acts when we've
been walking through discipleship is
Peter was a big part of the church, right?
So Moses, you guys know Moses, his story,
Moses actually killed a guy, right.
And some say it's in self-defense, but
he still killed the guy and then ran.
And God still used him to
lead his people out of Egypt.
So if God can use them, God can use us.
And I think that's in a way
that should encourage you.
And in a way you're like, oh gosh, Why
do we have to do these things that are
big mistakes or, you know, big, big
things that, that maybe do not honor
God, but, but God's still sees us.
And he still gives us a second chance.
And so I just, I think that's so
important when we look at today's story
that God is a God of second chances.
Um, and so we're going to see in
this story that there's three people
who God gives a second chance to.
He gives a second chance to Jonah.
He gives a second chance to.
The people of Nineveh and in
the end, it's a picture that
he gives us a second chance.
It gives us a second chance.
And so when we walk through these, this,
this, this, I'm hoping that we'll learn
how we respond when God gives us a second
chance and how we shouldn't respond.
Right.
And that's how we shouldn't
respond in crying right now.
You're agreeing.
So, let me just give a quick overview,
because I know it's been a little while
since we've, we've jumped into this.
So just, just so we're all on the
same page, Jonah, obviously prophet,
he gets the word of the Lord, spoke
to him and really spoke through him.
So Jonah would go to people and he would
say, Hey, here's what the Lord says.
Here's a prophetic word.
And Jonah would do that.
Right.
That was Jonah's role.
Um, but we know that Jonah,
um, God spoke, Jonah ran.
Uh, and God brought a storm to bring
him back in that second storm that
he brought was the well or the fish,
whatever you want to find that.
Right.
So it was in the belly of the fish.
So Jonah goes through a half-hearted
repentance, kind of what we
learned in this half-hearted
repentance at best, right.
He was more selfish in his repentance
and he was worried about those
who he was called to preach to.
Um, and we see that God's accepts it.
And this is the part where I had to
kind of take a step back as I began
studying this, even though I look
at what Jonah did as a half-hearted
repentance, God's still accepted.
'cause he said that he would use him.
And so how do you know that, that
God said he was going to use them?
Well, one I'm reading ahead, but two,
we see something I didn't address,
which is at the last time, which is
verse 10 of chapter two, where it
says then the Lord commanded the fish
and it vomited Jonah out on dry land.
Picture this, if you were out there
on the shore and you see this fish
vomit Jonah out, like disgusting, Like,
this is, this is horrible, but still
got, that was God's sign of saying,
Hey, I've still got a plan for you.
I'm a God of second chances.
So let's jump into this Textless, read it.
And we're just going to walk
through it and see how God gave
a second chance to Jonah, to the
Ninevites and really, even to us.
So again, Jonah chapter three verses one
through five, says this, this is the word
of the Lord came to Jonah a second time.
He said, get up, go to the
great city of Nineveh and
preach the message that I tell.
So Jonah got up and went to Nineveh,
according to the Lord's command.
Now, Nineveh was an extremely great
city, a three-day walk and Jonah
set out on the first day of his walk
in the city and proclaimed in 40
days, Nineveh will be demolished.
Then the people of Nineveh believed
God and they proclaimed a fast and
they dressed in sackcloth from the
greatest of them to the least of them.
Let's pray and invite God into this Lord.
Jesus.
We are just thankful
Lord for you and Lord.
We just want.
Uh, today to be a day in which
honors you, but Lord also a day in
which each one of us has our hearts
and minds opened to your word.
And so Lord, I pray that you speak and
we pray this in your headline name.
Amen.
So the first person that God gave a second
chance to was Jonah, we see this right.
Logical.
Right.
But it's interesting when you begin
to study about this, some people ask
this question who was more happy.
To be out of the Belize or the belly
of the fish, the fish or Jonah.
And some of us would say, well, obviously
Jonah, I mean, who would want to be
stuck in the belly of a fish, but by
Jonah been vomited out of the fish's
mouth, he had to go do what he did.
Really dreaded doing, which was go to the
people of Nineveh and preach repentance.
And we'll talk more about that as we go on
a little bit, but it's interesting here.
So we're, I'm just working on and
walk through this verse by verse
and kind of see some things that,
that I believe God speaks to us.
So the first thing he says is the word
of the Lord came to Jonah a second.
So the question is when was the first
time, so we're going to kind of go
back and forth between Jonah chapter
one and Jonah chapter three, because
they really relate to each other.
Right?
So the word Lord came to Jonah a
second time, but in Jonah, one, one,
it says the word of the Lord came
to Jonah summit, son of Amittai.
So that was the first time.
And so I want us to just stop and
think about this for a moment.
God spoke to Jonah, not only one.
But twice.
And really as a prophet, Jonah would have
been spoken to by the Lord multiple times.
Is that on an amazing feat?
Like at times guys, we take
something that should be amazing
to us and we view it as something
normal because it happens so often.
You take it for granted, great example
every day that I get to wake up with
my kids and my wife is a gift from
God, but at times I'm more frustrated
about how slow they're getting up
and how much they're not listening to
me and how much we have to do today.
And the rush of the day that
I don't stop and say, man.
Wow.
Thank you, Lord.
For these children and this wife
and the life that I have, we take
that for granted, Jonah just heard
from the Lord a second time, right?
A word from Lord second time in this book.
But there's multiple times where we
miss that moment where God speaks to us.
So here's a question.
Anybody ever here met a
famous person, anybody.
Okay.
A couple of people.
Great.
Did you meet a person like that?
That may be.
You were in awe.
And what I mean by that?
Is this somebody that you would
respect well that you're like, wow.
They would actually, I
got a chance to meet them.
I don't know if that was a
moment for you where you're
like, wow, this is really cool.
Yes.
No, I don't know.
No.
Okay.
Let me go a step further.
Cause I figured there might be a
few people here going, Hey, that
doesn't mean anything to me and guys,
you have a way to knock this out.
You're ready.
Have you ever spoke to someone who,
uh, if that was pretty cute and maybe
wanted to hang out with anybody?
Anybody?
No.
Okay, great.
So menu, you run that.
You should have raise your
hand because your wife.
Okay.
So reason why I say that is, is
that some thinking through this,
the moment that this woman over here
spoke to me at school, it was like,
wow, this hot girl over here, that's
a couple of grades ahead of me.
He's talking.
That's a big deal to me.
Right.
And still to this day, I'll look
at her and I'm still amazed 18
years that we've been together.
That she's still talking to me, honey,
I'm going to switch this back to God
though, because those are the things
where I don't want us to miss this.
See, I think, I don't think, I
believe that Jonah had gotten
used to hearing the Lord's voice.
And so when he spoke to him
the first time Jonah was so
used to it, it was kinda like.
I can do what I want to,
but the second time he was
desperate for the Lord's voice.
That's typically when we hear it is when
we're desperate for the Lord's voice.
And so at these moments where I'm
just like, oh gosh, like Jonah,
got it the second time, but he
didn't get it the first time.
How can I get it the first time?
I mean, don't take it for
granted that God speaks to you.
So here's the question.
How does God speak to us?
Give me some examples.
How does God speak to you through this?
So, can you hear from him
if you're not in his word?
Like if that's one way and you're
saying, I don't hear from the Lord.
Well, there's one way, right?
You can't hear from him.
If you're not in the word, what's
another way that God speaks to you.
There are other people.
So if you're not community with
people, if you're not seeking God
together, you won't hear God that way.
What's another way that God speaks.
Conviction.
Right?
That means this, that if you have a
relationship with the Lord, you know, as
you go about your life, that conviction,
the holy spirit light, the spirit of God
inside of you is, is drawing you to him.
What's what's what's another way.
I'll give it one more time.
One more thing.
What's another word that
God speaks to us prayer.
Right?
So we sometimes take God for great.
C Romans five says that we have at the
moment of justification, which means
at the moment of salvation, the moment
that we give our lives to Jesus, we
have full access to God, through word,
through prayer, through other people,
through the holy spirit, all those are
there, but we take them for granted.
We take them so much for granted
where God speaks to us through those
things, or maybe in situations.
And we miss it because we are not.
Seeking the Lord.
We're not seeking the Lord.
So he says this verse
against the second time.
So we know Jonah didn't get
it right the first time.
Right.
He, he doesn't give up on.
And I'm thankful that God doesn't
give up on us and I'll let you guys,
because if it, God gave up on me on
my first mistake at the moment that I
gave my life to him guarantee, I walked
outside the church and I made a mistake.
So I'm thankful that God
gives us second chances.
And so Hebrews 13, five says this,
speaking of God, he says, I will
never leave you nor abandon you.
And so guys know this, those of you
who have kids understand this, you
would say that to your child, I will
never leave you nor forsake you.
And that has gotten.
And a relationship with you.
I will never leave you nor forsake you.
No matter how many times you
disobeyed me, I may be frustrated
at you and there may be some
punishment from it, but I love you.
And I'll never leave you.
That is God, even when we miss the mark.
Right.
So it's, it's important to remember here.
So God didn't just want Jonah to
accomplish his task or his mission.
So here's, here's what
we look at this picture.
It's it's I want to kind
of talk about the surge.
We can look at this and
say, well, God used Jonah.
He had him come out, you know, he's he
vomited him out of the fish's mouth and
he's going to use them again because
he wants his mission accomplished.
And that's all God cares about.
Well, yeah, sure.
God wants the mission accomplished.
And here's why there's 600,000
people in Nineveh that need to
repent or they will be destroyed.
Yes.
God wants to use Jonah to
accomplish the mission.
Well, what I love about
this picture is that God.
I didn't just want to accomplish
the mission through Jonah.
He wanted to reach Jonah.
The one, the one you are so important to
God and all these billions of people in
the world, you one are important to God.
That is a big deal.
And so we understand this, that
the God obviously loves us, right?
So at verse two, let's move on to
verse two, he says, get up and go.
Right.
Get up and go preach the
message that I tell you.
So let's look at Jonah one, two verse
or chapter one, verse two, it says
get up and go to the great city of
Nineveh and preach against it because
their evil has come up before me.
See what we're seeing here is Jonah
verses in chapter one, verses one and
two and Jonah chapter three, verses
one and two are the same thing.
The Lord spoke.
The Lord gave a command to get up and.
Now the question is what did Jonah do?
What did Jonah do?
Right.
Um, and I want to make this
statement and I'm gonna move on.
But do you ever notice sometimes
when it seems like you hear something
for the first time, even though
it's been said multiple times,
is that ever happened to you?
Um, I've heard this statement that, um,
especially in the pastoral world, I've
been told this, and I guess I hear this
as, when you get tired of saying it,
somebody's just getting it for the first.
And we're talking about mission,
vision, values, things like that.
But when we think about when,
and I'll just is a great example,
Brittany will say something to me
and it's like, I acknowledge it.
But then later she's
like, did you hear me?
I said this.
And I'm like, oh, and I finally get it.
It's that moment again?
I feel like with Jonah is this, it's
this idea of like, he heard God,
but he really didn't hear God, his
heart wasn't maybe prepared to hear.
God.
And so when God speaks, we
should get up and go, right.
And he talks about this
to this great city.
Uh, I just want to talk about
this for a brief moment.
So this great city of
Nineveh is, is great.
In two ways, we already
talked about 600,000.
But it's also great in it's
disobedience to the Lord.
And so, so you, so you fully understand
it because I brought this up at the
beginning of Jonah chapter one, but
I want to mention again, the people
of Nana where people have horrible,
I would say horrible things, right?
So they were not merciful to their
enemies and their enemies where the
Israelites, which would be Jonah.
Right.
Um, so they used to impel people alive.
They used to be head people and stack
their heads at the entrance of the gate.
And they used to skin people.
Does that sound like a place
you want to go hang out at?
And I bring about that
clarity of seeing this.
Why would Jonah not want to go there?
I mean, yeah, he doesn't want to go.
Any of those things happen to him.
So obviously he has that, but here's
the other thing is he was the enemy
in the, in, in, in this picture.
And so he was not only afraid for
himself, but he was like, why would
I ever want to see them be forgiven?
Anybody ever made that
judgment upon somebody?
But they should never be forgiven of this,
you know, or you hold that from them.
I'll never forgive them of this.
You become judge and jury in
that moment, whenever God is
the only one that has that.
And so even God, um, wanted
to save these people.
And so there's two things I want
to mention in this is if you've
ever thought that you can't be used
because of your obviously mistakes
that you've made in your life.
Look at Jonah, God's still using
Jonah with this half-hearted repented.
Right.
If you ever thought that you couldn't
be forgiven, look at the people that
God pursued so that they could hear
the truth and repent of their sins, no
matter where you're at in that spectrum,
God can still use you and forgive you.
And so, um, when we, when we continue
to look at this, we, we can't miss
this, that as we, um, understand our
sin, We can't continue on in that
sin as though it doesn't matter.
Cause this is the thing where I think
sometimes we get stuck with mint.
So if God's going to forgive me, he
gives me a second chance, a third
chance, maybe a hundred chance, if
God is that good of a God, then that
means I can continue on sending.
Cause it doesn't really matter.
Right.
I mean, is that okay?
Anybody?
Okay.
I'll answer the question.
No, even Paul talks about that, right?
We should not continue on sinning
so that Grace May have been.
Why because we don't truly, if we kept
on sending, we wouldn't truly understand
basically the heart of what sin is.
Sin is not God's best for you.
Sin is direct disobedience to the Lord.
And so God wants to save people
who recognize their sin, right.
And repent of that and recognize
it is not good for them.
So grace is extended when we recognize
our sinfulness and repent and turn.
We can't miss that.
So here's the cool news.
Jonah heard the word of the
Lord for the second time.
God gave him a message to preach.
And verse three says that Jonah got up
and went let's let's read this specific
Jonah got up and went to Nineveh,
according to the Lord's command.
He should have done that the first time.
I mean, it's easy to look at this picture.
He should have done that
the first time, but he.
The story could have been
different, but he didn't.
I think I mentioned this once before,
imagine this book with, with the
first chapter that says the word of
the Lord came to Jonah son of Amittai
and Jonah went and preached and they
repented, we wouldn't have more than
one chapter story could have moved on.
And I'm giving you guys a couple of ways
to think through this, this message.
Have you, have you ever thought,
man, if I would've made this decision
two years ago, If I wouldn't have
went down this path five years ago,
if I would've got my life right.
10 years ago, my life
will be totally different.
I don't know if anybody's
ever had that before.
If you've ever just regretted not
making the decision earlier and
wondering what would have happened.
See, I think about that
with Jonah's story.
And I think about that with God's story,
because God has a plan specifically
for you not to just fulfill his
kingdom, but really help you become
all that he has designed you to be.
And sometimes.
We are delaying that experience of
what God has for us because of our
own disobedience and our own sin.
So I mentioned this, um, before, you
know, our mission is to inspire hope,
right by helping people by helping
you discover God's purpose for your
life through relationship with Jesus.
Have you ever asked yourself this
question and maybe you just need to
ask yourself this question now is, do
you live in a state of anticipation
of what God wants you to do?
So I'm going to say it again.
Do you live in anticipation every
day of what God wants you to do?
Or do you live an unexpected life?
That is merely a repeat of itself?
See, I would say this, everybody in
this room's living one of those or
the other, I'm going say it one more
time so that you can kind of let it.
Are you living in a constant
state of anticipation about
what God wants you to do?
God's purpose for your life.
Pursuing that everyday, asking
the question, being a part of a
community that strives to challenge
you to deliver that expectation, or
are you living an unexpected life?
That merely is on repeat
and just existing.
See the first one for God wants you.
The second one is where God is
saying and begging don't don't.
Live that way.
It is not a fulfilling way for you.
And it is not a fulfilling way
for his plan for you and for the
people that he has for you to reach.
And if we look at this story,
right, Jonah was caught off guard.
The first time God spoke to him,
he was not anticipating God.
He was not fully surrendered
to God's will in that moment.
So he ran because he wanted to keep
repeating what w what he was doing before,
because that was comfortable to him.
So we ran.
Well, if we look at the second part of
this, the second time that God spoke
to Jonah, he was anticipating now,
yes, he went through the rough seas
and the belly of a fish, and you'd be
listened to the Lord at that moment.
But every day, every day we should be
anticipating, God has a plan for you.
Where are you pursuing it in the word?
And fellowship with other believers
in prayer through conviction.
Conviction only happens through a
relationship with Jesus every day.
God has that for you.
And we see Jonah, obviously following
that this second time, and I just want
to mention this verse God desires to
do exceedingly abundantly more than we
could ever ask or think through him.
We should live in anticipation.
So we see again, Jonah got up and he
went that correct direction, right?
The direction that God had for his
life, he could have got to read the
first time he didn't, but God gave
him a second chance to get it right.
And, and I'm already getting to the
end here before I get there, but you
can choose today to not wait and get
it right today so that you don't wait
for the hundredth time that God is
pursuing you and challenging you to live
your life out the way he's called you.
So God's got a second chances to
Jonah, but God's a, got a second
chances to the people of Nineveh.
And this is where we get the
details of the second chance.
So in verse four, it says, Jonah
set out on the first day of us
walking the city and proclaimed in
40 days, Nineveh will be demolished.
You know what a great message.
That was a really powerful message.
If I preach like that every week, I
wonder how many people would get saved.
And, um, I'll talk a little bit about
that in just a minute, but when we
think about this, Um, you may be
thinking the same thing Jonah did.
How could he go as one person, their enemy
and lead 600,000 people to repentance?
How could he do that?
And there's one answer.
God, see, many times we lack in fulfilling
our purpose and going, living the way
that God's called us to, because we
look at our own powers and our own
abilities, and we say, can't happen.
Not possible.
In this moment, here's a great picture
that God can use one person, an enemy,
a disobedient person that had to have a
second time and go through the belly of
a well to get the right choice to go.
And he used a simple message, delete
600 people to give their lives back
over to the Lord and to repent.
Wow.
If God can do that one step or one act
of obedience today could lead 600,000
people to faith in Christ could lead
one, could lead life change in your life.
I don't know, I have no clue.
And so we, we see that, right.
Obviously it's just like,
how could this happen?
But the question most of
us have is is this the only
message that Jonah proclaimed?
And so when I look at my Bible is the
only message that God gives me that he
said, so we D we can think, man, okay.
After he said that they all
gathered around the town hall and
he walked through all these things.
It's not there so we can suppose
some things, but this one
message shows the power of God.
I believe.
So.
The other question is, and I kind of
mentioned this in the beginning, man.
If I came and preached the message
that Jonah preached would there be
600,000 people repent each week.
And the answer is if that's the
message the Lord gave me and
that's what the Lord wanted to do.
Absolutely see we, we, we, we think we
need to add something to God's word.
When God's saying, it's not in your
words, that's the power it's in mind when
it spoke and Jonah reminds us of them.
So maybe we give Jonah a hard time
for this small message, but maybe
that is the word that God gave him
to speak so that Jonah couldn't
get the credit for what happened.
So at this point again, we see God
spoke, Jonah listened and responded
and proclaim the messages that God.
Totally different from the first response.
And so it seems like maybe
he'd learned his message.
And again, we haven't got to the end of
the book, so maybe not, but first five
tells us this when the word or somebody,
not the word, the word, uh, then the
people of Nineveh believed God, they
proclaimed a fast and dressed in sackcloth
from the greatest of them to the least.
And so they believe the message that
Jonah spoke, even though it was simple.
And so the people of Jonah
were more responsive.
To Jonah's message.
Then Jonah was responsive to
God's message the first time.
I think that's an interesting
picture when we think about that.
So let's take a moment to think
through that for a second.
Jonah, if we look in today's
terms, Jonah was a church person.
Um, he was religious.
He had heard multiple messages
from the Lord and he had
really full knowledge of God.
Yet we see Jonah ran from the.
So let's look at the people of Nineveh.
Who, again, when we think about
today's terms, they were unchurched.
They'd heard one brief message
from Jonah and they lacked
knowledge of God out of those two.
Before you heard everything before,
which one of them should have responded
to God easier, Jonah, but he didn't.
So so many times we worry as believers.
And if you're a believer in this room,
we were in believers is when we're going
to share the truth of the gospel with
somebody, if they're going to respond.
But I think this is a point that says,
Hey, I wonder as believers if we're
going to respond, because it sounds
like John just reminded me of my
heart is I become numb to the word.
And his commands and his word to
go and his word to get up and to
share the good news with people.
And I, and it just becomes
normal for me to reject.
And that, that just mean
that just hit me hard.
Right?
So we can replace our name with Jonah.
Right.
At least some of this might be true
for you that you're in the church that
you've heard multiple, multiple messages.
And here's what I do know.
You guys can't run from that because
you're in a church and I know you've
at least been here for two messages,
so you can't get out of that one.
Okay.
So you may be able to replace yourself
with Jonah in that instance, right?
Maybe you don't have all the knowledge
that Jonah did, but you have a lot.
So the question is what
went wrong with you?
Here's what I would say is the
information for Jonah had only gone
to his head the first time it did
not move to his heart or to his feet.
And when I started thinking through
that picture, I'm not a good drawer.
And so I'm not drawing this up
here, but I drew a stick man on my
paper and begin to think about this.
How does it work?
Where we can get things into our head, but
they don't get to our heart or our feet.
What happens.
So great example, practical
example Brittany's done in here.
So she doesn't hear me.
Um, Brittany says, uh, actually
I'm gonna put it this way.
As a, as a husband, I take out
the trash that are chaining.
Does I just take out the trash?
That's my role.
I know I need to take out the trash.
It's driven to me.
It's it's the law in our house.
I take out the trash, right?
I know this, but it comes to my heart.
When I recognize all that
my wife does and her knee.
So when it goes from here, because I
know that's my role and it actually
hits here because it's a hard thing.
I want to help my wife out.
I see all the things she does.
This is the least I can do.
It goes to my feet and I go
and I go change the trash.
What happens when we become, so I'm going
to put this back into the church world.
What happens when we fill
ourselves with knowledge?
And we never move it
from here to our heart.
We never begin to understand the
true meaning behind the knowledge.
It never hits our feet and we never go.
I don't know if that makes sense
to you, but when I drove this
little stick figure and wrote these
things out, it made sense to me.
Then you, you study God's word you,
you pray, you spend time in fellowship
and you're gaining all this knowledge.
And in the end, you're
gonna love this one guys.
We're spiritually.
Okay.
You know what that means?
We're bloated, meaning we just overly
overly filled, but we'd have no real
way to get I'm going to stop there.
So, right.
It's, it's these truths that we know,
and we ignore and refuse to obey them
because they refuse to get to our heart.
We refuse to understand the
heart behind God in this.
And so maybe we're like Jonah,
when we think of this as take it
or leave it, we get the knowledge
and we take it or leave it.
Right.
But that one of the greatest
challenges I see in this.
As how there are people
waiting on one simple message
from God and we can give it.
Jonah just said it.
We can give one message and to let
600,000 people to turn back to God and
to ask for forgiveness of their sins.
There's someone waiting on you on
the other side of your one little
message that could change their life.
That's impactful to me that you guys
and me can all stand up from here today.
And maybe it's the conversations we have
after service, or maybe it's when we
walk out to the parking lot, or maybe
it's at our kids' activity later this
afternoon, or maybe it's at dinner.
There's somebody waiting on you to take
the knowledge that you have, move it
to your heart and put it in your feet
and go share that message with them.
Maybe it's short, but that
one message is powerful.
Does that make sense?
That one message is powerful.
And God's called you and
me to be a part of that.
So, right.
God gives second chances to Jonah, to
the people who have been of him, because
obviously he sent Jonah that he could
have just left him there and destroyed
him, but he didn't, he gave him a second
chance, but ultimately God is giving us a
second chance for the rest of our lives.
To fulfill the call that has on us.
I don't know if you see it in this
versus, but I felt like that we can
look at these verses and we can take
it and apply it to knowledge, Jonah
Nineveh and never applied to us.
But God is speaking through his
word today, directly to you and
me to say this, he's given you
a second chance to get it right.
And here's the thing don't go and
fear that you'll fail, because guess
what you will, at times you will,
but God will pick you up again.
You don't go with that mentality.
You go with it in such a way
that you depend upon God.
He'll give you the words to
speak and the things to do.
So if God can change the hearts of 600,000
people who were far far from him, right?
Did those horrible things,
then he can change our hearts.
If God can take Jonah's half
heart of repentance and use
him to change the eternity of
600,000 people, he can use you.
God can use you.
So second Chronicles, seven, 14.
I want to read this.
I want to kinda break down just
a few things and we're going
to kind of close out here.
Send Chronicles seven 14 says
if my people, so it starts with,
you have to be a person of God.
If my people who bear my name,
humble themselves, pray and seek my
face and turn from their evil ways.
Then I will hear from them and forgive
their sins and heal their life.
Here's what God is saying in this.
If you are a part of God's family,
if you've given your life to Jesus
and you humble yourself, which means
this, it's not about you anymore.
It's about what God desires to do, and
you pray and seek his face, which means
you're seeking him and not yourself and
turn and repent from your evil ways.
Whatever that is, God will hear from you
and forgive you and use you where you are.
Where he has you.
We serve a God who gives second chances.
Guys, we need to hear that.
We need to hear that every day we serve
a God that gives us second chances.
He's not an angry God who
just wants something from us.
He's actually a loving God
who wants something for us.
I want to mention a couple
of things he wants for us.
He wants us free from our sins
that so heavily weigh us down.
Right?
The wages of sin is death, but
that's not God's best for us.
So he has given us a way out from that.
Freedom to fulfill our purpose
here on earth with passion
and joy and life change.
And the last is he wants a
relationship with you, right?
He loves you.
He wants what's best for
you in that relationship.
So what's stopping you from giving
God all that he has called you
to give what is stopping you
from experiencing God's second.
Chance.
So as we, we have a time of
invitation, I just want to do this.
I'm going to take, give you guys
a couple moments to reflect.
I want you to just close your eyes
and I want you to just think through
a few things with me, because I want
today to be a day of a next step.
I'm telling you guys, I sat in a
church, two churches last week, and
I'm reminded of the place you sit.
And if you're anything like
me, you probably checked out
27 times in the middle of my
message, because I did that last.
But what I realized in those moments
is if I don't take a point in the
message and actually reflect and
take a step, they become knowledge
and they never make it to the heart.
So do me a favor, close
your eyes by your hands.
I'm just going to talk through a few
things for you guys to just consider
in your hearts as you prepare for
what that next step is for God.
So this is where you could relate.
Maybe you're relating with Jonah,
maybe, you know, more about the
word of God than most, you know,
that God has a plan for you, right.
But maybe you become numb to those truths.
And if that's you, here's
what I know from God's word.
It's time to repent.
Do not leave today.
Before you ask God to forgive you of
just not living out the knowledge that
you know, and place it in your home.
And walking through it.
God's grace is waiting on you guys.
God's not as here to condemn you.
God's here to give you freedom
to be used for his glory.
So maybe that's not you,
maybe you're not Jonah.
Maybe you relate more with
the people of Nineveh.
Maybe you have a current or past sin
that is holding you back, that you
don't ever feel like you could be
forgiven of or used because of that sin.
I'm going to just give you
clear truths from God's word.
It's time for you to see
that you can be forgiven.
As we saw here in Jonah story, you can be
forgiven and you concern your life to him.
God's grace is waiting for you as well.
There's not a person in this room.
That's not too far from God's grace.
Maybe you're somewhere in the middle.
This is the last group.
I just want to address.
Maybe you're somewhere in the middle.
Maybe you don't know, relate with Jonah.
You don't relate with the people
of Nineveh, but you're somewhere
in the middle, but there's a
next step you need to take.
Maybe it's baptism.
Maybe it's sort of surrender to ministry.
Maybe it's just a recommitment to
the Lord because you've fallen away.
Has don't wait until tomorrow.
Ask God what that is that you need to do.
I want to challenge you with today.
This, this last thought is after
you ask the Lord during this time
of invitation, what next step you
need to make you tell someone you
write it down and you set a date.
I'm gonna say that again.
Whatever next step God is asking
you to take you, tell someone, you
write it down and you set a date when
you're going to begin to address it.
That's the only way we'll
begin to overcome these things.
That's the only way we'll ever
move knowledge from our heads
to our hearts, to our feet.
And God's calling you to do that
today through the word of Jonah.
The last thing I want to mention
is if you don't know how to
take that next step, I am here.
Brittany is here.
There's so many people
here, but I know I am here.
If you have questions, if you don't
know what to do, just talk to me.
I want to help you figure out
what it is that God is calling
you to take a next step in it's to
repentance, or maybe it's to faith.
But I just challenge you not to leave
here today without taking that next step.
Writing it down telling someone and
sending a date when you're going
to begin to start working on it.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus, God.
You're good.
And I know that you're good.
And your word says that you have
sent your son Jesus to die on a
cross for our sins, because Lord, we
could not pay for those on our own.
Um, each one of us Lord.
Um, Lord, you are growing and you
are wanting to grow closer to you.
And I pray today through your word Lord,
that each one of us does not miss the
opportunity to take that next step.
Lord have faith, or maybe it's the next
step of repentance in the area of sin.
But Lord, wherever you call on
each one of us, Lord, I pray that
we do not lack the faith to take.
Lord that we will surrender
these things to you and begin
living in a way that honors shoe.
And then it's a light to the world.
So Lord, we love you and we
pray this in your holy name.
Amen.
If you'll stay with us as we worship.